# My TypeScript Journey: Earned Badges

1. **Getting Started with TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/Q4JBKQWE?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
2. **Declare Variable Types in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/NYZARN5F?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
3. **Implement Interfaces in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/Q4JBRARE?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
4. **Develop Typed Functions in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/9HDBJQ7U?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
5. **Declare and Instantiate Classes in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/FR2ABZ2X?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
6. **Generics in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/8FAYX8SW?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
7. **Work with External Libraries in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/NYZAC99F?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)
8. **Organize Code with Namespaces in TypeScript**: [Badge](https://learn.microsoft.com/api/achievements/share/en-us/AndrewRakitin-4374/U8XNS5T3?sharingId=1CE274C6A3E2B990)

##### Personal Reflections on Learning

1. In "Getting Started with TypeScript" module I discovered that TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript, I got the skills how to install TypeScript, how to configure TS config JSON file, and how to compile TS file to JS file. These skills allow me to cofigure and compile TS in my future TS tasks.
2. "Declare variable types in TypeScript" module explained to me new types of variables such as enums, union, intersection, literal types, collection types (arrays and tuples), and difference between "unknown" and "any" types. This ability of TS allows to verify data types.
3. "Implement Interfaces in TypeScript" module introduced me to TS Interfaces which allows to check compliance of different objects with the requirements of interfaces, explained the difference between interfaces and type aliases such as interfaces have ability to extension, but type alises have not.
4. "Develop Typed Functions in TypeScript" describes for me the ability of TS to check both types of parameters passed to the function and the type of returned value by the function which prevent usage of function with wrong parameters type.
5. "Declare and Instantiate Classes in TypeScript" module provides me additional options of TS to declare classes with strict typization of class properties, arguments passed to class constructor and methods, and also module provides me the strict typization of returned values of class methods. Additionally module desribes ability to use interfaces to determine class shape (such as necesserity of presence in class of methods and properties declared in interface ).
6. "Generics in TypeScript" module introduced me code templates so called "generics" which can be used in cases when we do not exactly now the type of parameter but we need to provide some limitation or even dependency for variable in one place to variable in another place. Generics can be used both in functions and in interfaces and classes, and provide ability more strong typization than no typization with type "any".
7. "Work with External Libraries in TypeScript" familiarized me with ability of using TS to use modules and external libraries. TS provide ability to transfer strict typization such as interface or any different TS strict type from one module into another, ability to transfer strict typization of functions parameters from one module into another, and so on.
8. "Organize Code with Namespaces in TypeScript" module provide me ability to group functions, classes, interfaces into namespaces by some criteria. This functions, classes, intefraces are accessable only by using their namespaces like properties and methods of object with dot notation. Also there are ability to share namespaces from one TS module to other modules, in this case it is neccessary to add link to dependent module with triple slash syntax.
